# create and add (stage) a file.
Git doesn't do much with empty directories, so let's add a file to the working tree to serve as the home page for the GitExample website.
1. Make sure your Cloud Shell session is still active and that you're in your repo folder named GitExample.
2. Use a `touch` or `echo` command to create a file named index.html:

```bash
    touch index.html
```
`touch` updates a file's last-modified time if the file exists. If the file doesn't exist, Git creates an empty file with that file name.

3. Now, use `git status` to get the status of the working tree:
```bash
    git status
```

Git responds by informing you that nothing has been committed, but the directory does contain a new file:
```Output
    No commits yet

    Untracked files:
    (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)

        index.html

    nothing added to commit but untracked files present (use "git add" to track)
```
Notice that `git status` gives you hints about what you can do next. Git can be configured to be less wordy, but at this stage, more is better.

4. Use `git add` to add the new file to Git's *index*, followed by `git status` to check the status. *Don't forget the period at the end of the command*. It tells Git to index all the files in the current directory that have been added or modified.
```bash
    git add .
```

5. A commit has now been staged. Git's index is a staging area for commits. It's a list of all the file versions that will be part of the next commit you make.

Rather than use `git add .`, you could have used `git add index.html` because *index.html* was the only new file in the directory. But if several files had been added, `git add .` would have covered them all.
```bash
    git status
```

6. You should see output like this example:
```output
    On branch main

    Initial commit

    Changes to be committed:
    (use "git rm --cached <file>..." to unstage)

        new file:   index.html
```


# Make your first commit.
Now that index.html has been added to the index, the next step is to commit it.

1. Use the following command to create a `commit`:
```bash
    git commit index.html -m "Create an empty index.html file"
```
The `-m` flag in this command tells Git that you're providing a commit message.

There are many different ways to phrase commit messages, but a good guideline is to write the first line so that it says *what the commit does to the tree*.

2. Git responds with a confirmation of what you did:
```output
    [main (root-commit) 87e874c] Create an empty index.html file
    1 file changed, 0 insertions(+), 0 deletions(-)
    create mode 100644 index.html
```

3. Follow up with a `git status` command and confirm that the working tree is clean—that is, the working tree contains no changes that haven't been committed.

4. Now, use a `git log` command to show information about the commit:
```bash
    git log
```

5. Git's response should be something like this example:
```output
    commit 87e874c4aeeb3f9692ae5d9875235353708d7dd5
    Author: User Name <user-name@contoso.com>
    Date:   Fri Nov 15 20:47:05 2019 +0000

    Create an empty index.html file
```

# Modify index.html and commit the change.
*index.html* was created to serve as the website's home page, but it's currently empty. The next step is to add some HTML to it. We'll start simple by using the Cloud Shell built-in editor to add a single line of HTML.

1. Open *index.html* in the online editor by typing `code index.html` at the terminal prompt:
```bash
    code index.html
```

2. Type or paste the following statements in the editor:
```html
    <h1>Our Feline Friends</h1>
```

3. Save the file and close the online editor.

4. Use a `git status` command to check the status of the working tree:
```bash
    git status
```

5. You can see that Git is aware of the changes you made:
```output
    On branch main
    Changes not staged for commit:
    (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
    (use "git checkout -- <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)

        modified:   index.html

    no changes added to commit (use "git add" and/or "git commit -a")
```

6. Now, commit the changes:
```bash
    git commit -a -m "Add a heading to index.html"
```

Note that we didn't run the `git add` command this time to stage our changes. Instead, we used the `-a` flag in the `git commit` command. The `-a` option adds all the files you modified since the last commit. It won't add *new* files. To add new files, you still need `git add`.

7. Check the output. It should look like this example:
```bash
    [main 8c9143a] Add a heading to index.html
    1 file changed, 1 insertion(+)
```



