# Exercise - Set up GitHub Copilot to work with Visual Studio Code
In this exercise, we create a new repository using the GitHub template for the JavaScript personal portfolio frontend web application.

## Sign up for GitHub Copilot
Before you install and use the extension, you need to register by setting up [a free trial or subscription for your account](https://github.com/github-copilot/signup).

```
    Educators, Students and select open-source maintainers can sign up for Copilot for free, learn how at: https://aka.ms/Copilot4Students
```

## Environment set up

First you need to launch the Codespaces environment, which comes preconfigured with the GitHub Copilot extension.
1. Open the [Codespace with the preconfigured environment](https://codespaces.new/MicrosoftDocs/mslearn-copilot-codespaces-javascript?quickstart=1) in your browser.
2. On the **Create codespace** page, review the codespace configuration settings and then select **Create new codespace**
3. Wait for the codespace to start. This startup process can take a few minutes.
4. The remaining exercises in this project take place in the context of this development container.

```
    All GitHub accounts can use Codespaces for up to 60 hours free each month with 2 core instances. For more information, see GitHub Codespaces monthly included storage and core hours.
```

## JavaScript portfolio
When complete, Codespaces loads with a terminal section at the bottom. Codespaces installs all the required extensions and dependencies in your container. Once complete, Codespaces uses `npm start` to start the web application within your Codespace.

When the web application has successfully started, a message in the terminal shows that the server is running on port 1234 within your Codespace.
