# Setup.

1. Use the `mkdir` command to create a folder named GitExample:
```bash
    mkdir GitExample
```

2. Use the `cd` command to change to the project folder.
```bash
    cd GitExample
```

3. Now, initialize the new repository and set the name of the default branch to `main`.
```bash
    git init --initial-branch=main
    git init -b main
```

4. Configure Git by adding your credentials. Replace `<USER_NAME>` and `<USER_EMAIL>` with your own information (for example, "User Name" and "user-name@jetro.com").
```bash
    git config user.name "<USER_NAME>"
    git config user.email "<USER_EMAIL>"
```

5. Create some files by using the `touch` command, and then stage and commit the files by using Git:
```bash
    touch index.html
    mkdir CSS
    touch CSS/site.css
    git add .
    git commit -m "Create empty index.html, site.css files"
```

6. Add some HTML to your *index.html* file by using the Cloud Shell code editor, which you can open by using the `code` command at the terminal prompt:
```bash
    code index.html
```

7. Paste in this HTML code:
```html
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
    <head>
        <meta charset='UTF-8'>
        <title>Our Feline Friends</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="CSS/site.css">
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>Our Feline Friends</h1>
        <p>Eventually we will put cat pictures here.</p>
        <hr>
    </body>
    </html>
```

8. Save the file and close the editor.

9. Change to the CSS directory and open *site.css* in the editor:
```bash
    cd CSS
    code site.css
```

10. Add the following CSS to *site.css*:
```css
    h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6 { font-family: sans-serif; }
    body { font-family: serif; }
```
Then, save the file and close the editor.

11. Go back to the GitExample directory.
```bash
    cd ..
```

12. Finally, commit your changes:
```bash
    git add .
    git commit -m "Add simple HTML and stylesheet"
```

13. Quickly check your Git log to make sure everything looks good:
```bash
    git log --oneline
```

14. Check the output. You should see output like this example:
```output
    2bf69ab Add simple HTML and stylesheet
    bb371c8 Create empty index.html, site.css files
```


## Clone a repository.
To simulate Jetro cloning your repo onto their computer, you'll create a directory named Jetro on your computer and clone your project directory into it. In real life, you would accomplish this collaboration by setting up a network share or a remote that's reachable by URL.

1. Create a directory named *Jetro* to clone the repo into. It must not be a subdirectory of your project directory, so `cd` up again to the parent directory from your project directory to make Jetro a sibling of the project directory. Then, `cd` into the *Jetro* directory.
```bash
    cd ..
    mkdir Alice
    cd Alice
```

2. Now, use `git clone` to clone the repo that's in your project directory into the Jetro directory. Be sure to include the period at the end of the command:
```bash
    git clone ../Cats .
```
``../Cats` tells Git where to clone from and `.` tells Git where to clone to. In Unix, `.` refers to your current directory.

3. Check the output. Git should display this text to let you know that it worked:
```output
    Cloning into '.'...
    done.
```

A clone of the repo that's in your project directory is now in your Jetro directory!
